# SpeedieBean
Our project, on a high level, is a web application to manage Speedie Bean’s orders and deliveries. Speedie Bean is a cold brew coffee delivery startup based in New Orleans. Currently, the company is struggling with handling new orders and their respective deliveries. Their current system has no structured management system, making communication between the company and delivery drivers very difficult. The customer places orders via Speedie Bean’s previously developed website that we will not be working on. Our goal is to create a system that will allow them to automate most of the work on the backend, communicate with Shopify, and focus their efforts on scaling the business.

This application will be used by both Speedie Bean’s management and delivery drivers. With this application, the orders will flow automatically from Shopify into the application, creating a list of orders that need to be delivered. From there, delivery drivers can accept orders for pickup, notifying the customer, and marking off which ones have been delivered. By using this automated system, we are solving many problems with inefficiency. Currently, the Speedie Beans managers are manually inputting all the orders from Shopify into an excel spreadsheet. This is tedious, disorganized, and inefficient. Furthermore, the delivery drivers currently have to manually accept orders from this excel sheet, which can cause confusion when someone forgets to say they picked up an order. Their present-day system is not scalable or realistic to keep using as the company expands. Our application will solve these issues of inefficiency and disorganization.

Speedie Bean’s primary competitors are local coffee shops and delivery services like Doordash and Postmates that can deliver coffee from stores, such as Starbucks and Dunkin’ Donuts. In addition, Speedie Bean is aimed at selling their gallons of coffee to campus students, so one of the more direct competitors are coffee shops on campus and coffee shops within dining halls. However, one of the greatest upsides to Speedie Bean is that they deliver freshly brewed coffee in bulk – by delivering gallon-sized containers of coffee, the customer no longer has to worry every morning about finding a fresh cup of coffee.

This project is compelling because it will give Speedie Bean the ability to scale to a variety of locations. Moreover, the development of this application will greatly reduce the number of manual tasks done on a constant basis by the company’s management. The automation of order processing will allow the company to move away from micro-management. We believe that working with a startup provides a unique opportunity to make a significant impact on the success of the company. The lack of existing infrastructure within the company will give us flexibility in the design of the application.

What makes our product different from competitors is the idea of delivering coffee in larger quantities. While companies like Postmates and DoorDash offer delivery from local coffee shops, and apps like Instacart allow grocery deliveries, our product focuses solely on homemade coffee that provides an alternative to the current situation on campus. As we have seen previously, weekly delivery of milk is a very successful industry. With that being said, the current marketplace for a similar coffee delivery system is lacking. That is where we come in. The target market focuses on college students who are tired of drinking cheap coffee on campus. Currently, the scope of this product is 4 college campuses across the United States. With the implementation of our backend system, we envision exponential expansion into more and more campuses.

This project is an end-to-end application, touching all aspects of software development. Working with both frontend and backend development makes this project super interesting for all team members with different backgrounds and strengths. This gives us the unique opportunity to become well-rounded developers and learn about different topics we have not discussed in school. We will also be working with Shopify’s API, which is interesting because we will be working with a real API and interacting with it. Lastly, because we are working with a startup, this piece of technology will be tremendously impactful and an integral part of the company's growth and scalability.

The languages we are planning to utilize are SQL, React, JavaScript, NodeJS, CSS, HTML. We are looking into using a toolkit similar to Rekit Studio to deploy a mobile app for both Android and iOS. We will be using a Shopify API to connect orders to our system.

The biggest challenge that we will face in the development schedule will be using new technologies that we have never used before in course work. This will create a large learning curve for the project, and could impose a big challenge in the development schedule. Depending on how quickly we can catch on to using these new technologies such as React and the Shopify API will greatly influence our schedule. With an end-to-end product, we will be going beyond our skill sets to build something for Speedie Bean, which is the single most serious challenge we face in the schedule of the product development.

Our strategy to mitigate risk throughout the process is to be in constant contact with the Speedie Bean management to ensure we are implementing the functionality that they need in the current moment. With constant communication, we can ensure we do not waste time working on unnecessary features. We plan to meet regularly with the team in New Orleans to ensure we are meeting their goals. We plan to utilize storyboards within our team to make sure we are all on the same page and staying on top of our work throughout each sprint.
